---
up:
  - "[[Points]]"
related:
  - "[[Curves]]"
  - "[[Elemental Building Blocks]]"
  - "[[Numbers]]"
  - "[[Data Control]]"
  - "[[Data Relationships]]"
  - "[[Surface Creation]]"
  - "[[Surfaces]]"
  - "[[Parameters]]"
  - "[[SubD Surface Modeling]]"
  - "[[SubD Surface Patterns]]"
  - "[[Meshes]]"
  - "[[Surface Strategies]]"
date created: 2024-03-26
---
# Grids
Are a **[[#^c9d897|Pattern]]**.
In parametric and computational design, grids serve as [[Elemental Building Blocks|fundamental]] frameworks that organize, control, and guide the distribution of patterns and structural elements across a surface or volume. 

They represent a translation of complex geometries into manageable, discrete units.
The segmentation facilitating the application of design logic (like pattern creation, structural modifications, etc.) in both two-dimensional ([[#^86b1a0|bi-dimensional]]) and three-dimensional ([[#^bf865b|tri-dimensional]]) contexts. 

Grids are especially crucial in UV mapping, where they map 2D texture coordinates (U for width, V for height) onto 3D models, allowing for precise control over surface texturing and patterning
## Construction Details of Grids
### 2D **UV** Grids on [[Surfaces#Local Coordinate System|Surfaces]]:
#### Definition:
UV grids are created by laying out a network of U and V lines that correspond to the [[Parameters|parameters]] of a surface in a NURBS model. 

These grids do not exist physically but are rather conceptual tools used to manipulate surface properties.

**Transforms the Complex Surface into a Manageable 2D Space**: 
	The UV grid allows designers to work with complex 3D surfaces as if they were simple 2D planes. It simplifies many operations, such as texture mapping and pattern design, by reducing the 3D complexities into more understandable 2D representations.

**Facilitates the Application of 2D Patterns or Textures**: 
	Once the UV grid is established, you can apply 2D patterns, images, or textures across the surface systematically. The grid ensures that the pattern is distributed evenly and correctly conforms to the contours and curves of the 3D form.
	
This ability to map 2D parameters (the UV grid) onto a 3D surface effectively bridges the gap between simple, flat design concepts and their complex, real-world implementations on curved or irregular surfaces. 
	*Metaphorical example*: 
		Wrapping paper as the bi-dimensional pattern.
		The gift as the 3D object itself.
## Grid Generation
#### Construction Process: 
This involves the computational slicing of a surface into a mesh of polygons (usually quadrilaterals or triangles) defined by UV coordinates. 

Each point on the surface is associated with a specific (U, V) pair, linking surface points to positions in a 2D image or pattern.

For NURBS surfaces, which are defined mathematically with smooth curves and can take complex forms, the grid helps in mapping and controlling these complex shapes in a structured manner.
#### Process of Generating Grids from Surfaces
**Grids generated from a surface:**
- Meaning that the grid layout is derived based on the geometry and parameterization of that specific surface. 
	- For NURBS surfaces, which are defined mathematically with smooth curves and can take complex forms, the grid helps in mapping and controlling these complex shapes in a structured manner.
##### Parameterization:
Surfaces like NURBS are inherently defined by parametric equations involving parameters $u$ and $v$, which range over a domain to form the surface. 

The grid on a NURBS surface is generated by discretizing these $u$ and $v$ parameters—effectively laying out a network of lines along these parameters.
- This creates a UV grid where each intersection point corresponds to a specific ($u,v$) value on the surface, and each cell of the grid represents a patch of the NURBS surface.
##### Applications in Design:
###### Pattern Design: 
The UV grid facilitates the application of patterns in a manner that respects the underlying form of the NURBS surface. By manipulating the grid lines (i.e., transforming the edges), designers can develop intricate patterns that are continuous and aligned with the surface geometry.
###### Texture Mapping:
For visual aspects, especially in digital modeling and rendering, this grid system allows for effective texture mapping, where a 2D image (texture) is wrapped around the 3D model following the UV grid paths.
### 3D UVW Volumetric Grids:
#### Definition:
Extending beyond the surface, 3D grids partition a volume into smaller, manageable units often used in tri-dimensional patterns and volumetric analyses.
#### Construction Process:
Similar to 2D grids but includes a third parameter, W, adding depth to the grid system. 

These grids are used to manage and manipulate complex 3D forms and are essential in operations such as volumetric transformations and simulations.

## Grid Utilization in NURBS Surface (i.e. Skin) Generation and Pattern Design
^c9d897
The **Pattern**, that is the **outcome** of a sequence of construction and extraction processes.
- Specifically:
	1. The grid which defines the initial set of edges, from which a set of translated edges can be generated.
	2. The specific transformations of the initial edges. 

Implemented via [[Data Management#Skin and Pattern Generation Methods on an Input Surfaces NURBS Surface|Data Tree manipulation]].

In parametric design, particularly when dealing with UV grids on surfaces for pattern generation, the grid acts as the primary framework from which all pattern elements are derived. 

This framework is essential not only for defining the initial set of edges but also for controlling how these edges, once modified (transformed and non-transformed), influence the final design of the pattern. 

Grids, whether in bi-dimensional or tri-dimensional forms, act as essential tools in the architect’s and designer’s toolkit, enabling a methodical approach to creative surface manipulation and pattern application. 

Their use in UV parameter management, especially in NURBS modeling, underscores their importance in modern computational design processes, allowing designers to bridge the gap between intuitive artistic expressions and precise, algorithm-driven executions.
### Bi-dimensional Pattern
^86b1a0
Typically refers to a pattern that exists in two dimensions—essentially a 2D grid. 
- This grid can contain various shapes, lines, or points arranged in a plane, such as in wallpaper patterns, textile designs, or more complex geometrical tessellations. 
	- These patterns are defined within the x and y axes on a flat surface.
- Facilitate the uniform distribution of patterns across flat or gently curved surfaces, ensuring that elements like tiles or textures are evenly spaced and aligned according to the design specifications.
### Tri-dimensional Pattern
^bf865b
Extends this concept of 2D grids, into three dimensions, involving a 3D grid or array. 
- This includes structures arranged across the x, y, and z axes, creating volumetric patterns. 
	- Examples can be seen in architecture, where patterns may be used for façade designs, sculptural forms, or spatial partitions that occupy physical space and incorporate depth along with length and width.
- Help in organizing complex surface topologies and volumetric distributions. They guide the placement and orientation of pattern elements in three-dimensional space, accommodating more dynamic and sculptural design intents.
### The Pattern of Pattern Creation
1. Defining a *uv* Grid.
2. Extracting the edges of this *uv* grid.
3. Transforming the extracted edges of this grid.
4. Generating a surface from between the non transformed and transformed edges.
#### 1. Grid Definition/Formation on NURBS Surface (i.e. the initial set of edges):
A UV grid is established based on the surface parameterization of a NURBS model.

This grid divides the surface into a mesh of cells, each bounded by edges defined by intersecting U and V parameter lines.
- The **U lines** run along the length of the surface, and the **V lines** run across the width, intersecting U lines at right angles (or as per the surface curvature).

This grid forms the foundational structure and layout upon which the patterns is constructed.
- As this process defines the **initial set of edges**.
	- Whose **subsets** will be **a set of transformed edges** and **a set of non-transformed edges**.

The *uv* grid represents a mapping from a 2D parameter space (*uv* coordinates) onto the 3D surface.
- Facilitating an orderly arrangement of pattern elements across the complex topology of the surface.

The dimensions and orientation of the grid cells determine the scale of the pattern elements and their alignment relative to the surface’s geometry.
- It sets up the fundamental parameters like spacing, alignment, and size of the pattern components.
###### Edge Definition:
**Edges** of each cell in the grid are defined by the segments between intersections of U and V lines. 
- These edges delineate the boundaries of each cell and form the basic geometric structure from which patterns are developed.
	- Each edge inherits properties from its position on the NURBS surface, including its curvature, length, and orientation relative to the overall geometry of the model.

**Transformed Edges**: 
- Selected edges undergo transformations such as shifting, scaling, twisting, or bending. 
- These modifications alter their geometric and spatial characteristics, which in turn change the aesthetics and functionality of the pattern. 
	- For example, transforming edges to create curves or waves introduces dynamic elements into a pattern that was initially static and grid-like.

**Non-Transformed Edges**: 
- These remain unaltered and retain their original geometry and position. 
- They provide a reference or a baseline from which the transformations of the other edges are perceived and evaluated.
#### Extraction of Grid Edges:
This process involves **identifying** the **boundary lines** that **define** each **grid cell**.
- These edges serve as the **skeleton or framework** for the subsequent **pattern manipulation** and **transformation** steps. 

#### 3. [[#^c549e9|Transformation]] of the Extracted Edges:
This is the process of manipulating the pattern further.
- By defining the relationships of the subsequent surfaces to be generated.

By transforming the grid edges, designers can infuse creativity and functional considerations into the pattern. 

This step allows for the adaptation of the pattern to meet aesthetic preferences, performance criteria (like light filtration, airflow, or visual transparency), and contextual integration with the overall design.

#### 4. [[Surface Creation|Generation of the New Surfaces]]:
Creates **new surfaces** **between** the **non-transformed edges** and **transformed edges**.
- This involves using the original and manipulated edges as boundaries to translate or extrude new surface elements. 

These new surfaces fill the gaps/space between the adjusted edges, completing the pattern and adding a three-dimensional quality to the skin.
#### The Final Pattern 
Emerges as a complex interweaving of original grid structures with creatively altered geometries, defined by the strategic transformation of selected grid edges. 

The resultant pattern not only reflects the initial grid layout but also exhibits new forms and functionalities introduced through edge transformation. 

This methodology allows designers to explore a broad spectrum of pattern designs, from strictly geometric to highly organic, by manipulating simple grid-based edges on NURBS surfaces.
## Pattern Generation Examples
### SubD Surface Patterns
#### [[SubD Surface Patterns#Voronoi Skin Procedure|Planar Voronoi Pattern]]
#### [[SubD Surface Patterns#Non-Planar Voronoi Pattern|Non-Planar Voronoi Pattern]]
#### [[SubD Surface Patterns#Fading Pattern|Fading Pattern]]
### Surface Patterns
### [[Data Management#Rectangular Based Pattern|Rectangular Based Pattern Generation Example]]
#### [[Surface Strategies#Example Curvature Pattern|Curvature Pattern]]
#### [[Surface Strategies#Example Hexagonal Pattern|Hexagonal Pattern]]

## Operations on Grids
### Transformation Operations:
^c549e9
#### Translation:
Moving grid points along the UV axes to adjust their positions without altering the surface geometry.
#### Rotation:
Rotating grid lines around a point or axis, modifying the orientation of the patterns or textures mapped onto the surface.
#### Scaling:
Increasing or decreasing the size of grid cells, affecting the tiling of patterns or the scale of textures applied to the surface.
### Deformation Operations:
#### Bending: 
Applying a curve to grid lines, which is useful in creating complex, non-linear patterns or forms.
#### Twisting:
Rotating grid lines around a central axis to create spiral effects, often used in sculptural or dynamic surface manipulations.
#### Tiling:
Repeating elements across the grid to create continuous patterns, essential in wallpaper or textile designs.
### Analytical Operations:
#### Subdivision:
Dividing grid cells into smaller units for finer control over details, often used in high-resolution models or when precise manipulation is necessary.
#### [[Surface Creation]]: 
Pulling grid points out from the base surface to create 3D forms from 2D patterns, bridging the gap between bi-dimensional and tri-dimensional designs.

